Welcome back.
Let's work on the profile update function a very important point that's well we want to make sure we
protect We don't want anybody to be able to update a profile.
And we finally get to work a bit of the backend.
Now what we want to do here.
I'm going to minimize this.
And within our routes and our express app will create an app dot post that is the profile with the parameter
that is Heidi.
And this is going to have a request response that will have what should it have.
Well we want the profile to handle profile update and we pass in the request response object as well
as our D-B object so that we can connect to the database and actually update the user database.
So request response D.B
let's save you see that we've noticed the change in our Daker container which is very very nice.
Now let's actually build this handle profile update we once again go to our controllers to profile and
instead of handle profiles get we'll create a new function called handle profile update and it's going
to be a simple function this simple function is going to accept a request a response and the db that
we just passed it on.
And inside of here we're going to grab the ID from request dot.
Remember that's the field over here that we provide.
So it can be profiled 23 poor file one if it's profile one will grab the a user that we have.
And in the security section we discussed this idea of always never trusting inputs and what user sends
you.
And we can do some checking here to make sure that Puranas exists make sure that whatever we expect
from the client side is correct.
But for time's sake we're going to focus on just profile update.
Otherwise we're just going to be spending way too long.
You watch Yumiko.
All right.
We also want to grab the name age and pet object that we're going to send from the request of body form
input.
Now we haven't actually done this on the client side but we want to send a form and put object that
contains name age and Pat.
And now with our D-B object we can use Carnac's to simply say I want D-B users.
And once again if you're not familiar with K'NEX you can just go to their documentation and it's very
very simple.
It reads like English and you'll see what I mean now.
I'm going to say grab the user stable where the ID
is already.
I can just make that simplified and keep it like this.
So where the ID matches with whatever we've provided and in that case we want to update.
And for now because we don't have the age column the pet column in our database yet that's going to
be one of your exercises we're just going to worry about updating the name.
So I'm just going to say update name again I can just simplify it and do name
because that's the column name of the users table.
Finally we can do a dot then and once we get a response from that
we'll say that.
Whoops that's not what we wanted to do.
We'll say that we want to.
Well if there is some sort of a response and we can do a bit of checking here.
But if there is a response from the database which is what we want we'll respond with.
Jason let's just say success because we've updated the user successfully.
Otherwise we will just respond with a status of 400 and we can just say Jason for an hour just leave
it.
It's not found or let's just say on unable to update
and of course with any promise we want to do a catch to catch any errors and in our case we'll just
say that the air will just do a response status of 400 a day and a response of error updating user.
All right let's save here.
See if we get any errors.
No errors yet.
That's always a good sign.
So let's give the handle a profile update here make sure we export in.
And now we should have this available in our server.
JS now to test this to do a post request we can either start working on the front end side and do a
Fettes request or we can use something like Postman and Postman is something that we've used before
in my previous course.
It's absolutely amazing if you're ever working with API eyes and building out your own restfully API.
You must be while you must use postman it's absolutely great and you'll see why now.
I'm going to do a post request to localhost and Olby 3000.
And it's going to be to profile Heidi of one because we only have one user now in the body.
We want to say that it's going to be raw Jaison that we send.
It's going to have a form and put make sure that this is Jason.
Let's say form and put
and this form input is going to have name of let's say
Johnny page of 54.
And finally Pat that is just say
five click send here I get a success.
I was able to enter the body give it some input and if we go back we see that all right there was a
post request to profile one.
Here's the fun part.
Let's go back to our
and just sign in again.
We'll say at a Tom Pastore day and look at that our users name is now Johnny.
We've successfully created the handle profile update function.
That's pretty amazing.
And in quite a few lines of code.
That wasn't that bad was it.
We just simply created a post request and that post request is simply waiting for parameter of ID name
age and Pat from the form input all the body and then we just update the users database.
As long as the ID matches what you provided and it updates in our case just the name it's going to return
a success or unable to update based on while we've done.
All right.
Just not just so we don't get confused.
Let's go back to postman and make sure we change Johnny's name to a just in case it's success again.
If I refresh we had a a a sign in.
All right we're back to normal.
Everything's good.
We have our user the way we need it hostile.
So now that we have this handle profile update we're actually going to connect it to the client side
so that when we hit save on our profile page it's going to work it's going to be a lot of fun.
I'll see in the next video by.